The Joe Rogan experience.
I wanted to have you on, first of all,
cuz I really respected that you made this change of opinion
publicly when you were first talking about marijuana, uh,
you were talking about it as if it had no medical benefit and it was really just
a recreational drug that was possibly or probable harmful.
Is that a assessment that you agree with? Yeah.
I, I, I think it certainly didn't seem to have any medicinal benefit. Right?
Yeah. But.
Then upon further examination you publicly changed
your position and, and you in,
in doing so you actually examined all the scientific evidence that pointed
to for many people with diseases, many people that are on chemotherapy,
many people with, um, you know, some serious ailments,
marijuana can be very beneficial.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and you talked about that and I really admired that cause
that takes a lot of courage cuz a lot of people when they, um,
have an idea and they proclaim it publicly, they double down and just,
you know, use confirmation bias and whatever, you know,
echo chamber news sources,
they can get to sort of confirm their initial position and you didn't do that.
And I, I thought that's a real,
a real thinking person who is trying to
honestly figure out what's going on instead of just working on being right.
Well, I look, I, I appreciate that. And I have been very, very,
it was very illuminating for me because I think the way that we become a more
knowledgeable society, I think sometimes surprises people. Um,
I do think,
and maybe this will dovetail even to a little bit of what's going on now, but,
but the thing is that when, when you looked at the,
so if you were just to look at the bulk of evidence around cannabis
at that, and I'm talking, I wrote this time magazine article back, you know,
this is probably 12,
13 years ago and I looked at the bulk of evidence and you say, okay,
I'm gonna just look at the 400, most recent paper. I'm gonna read the abstracts.
I'm gonna dig in deep on some of them. And 94% of them were,
were basically the hypothesis was where's the harm here? Show me the harm.
Right? The hypothesis was not show me the benefit.
That was only true for about 6%. So right away,
you're dealing with a sort of very biased sort of set of data.
And that's one stream 'em up. Now, if you're just looking at papers,
you're like, well this one potentially long harm, this one possible addiction,
this one gateway, you know, you're seeing all those individual studies,
but at a broader level, one step upstream,
you realize that most of the studies that are getting funded are designed to
look for harm, right? Yeah. So when I saw that,
that was the first time I thought, well, why,
why are the studies that are getting out there?
Why are they all all designed to look for harm?
Then I started looking at other countries and some really good research out of
places like Israel in particular guy named Roth Ulum who's 91 years old.
Now he was the first guy to I ever isolate THC and then synthesize it.
He's been doing this work forever.
He may get the Nobel prize before he dies for, for his work in this.
They were talking about the use of cannabis for all sorts of ailments,
including refractory seizures in kids. Hmm.
And that one really, that really got to me for a couple reasons.
One is that I think when you're trying to do studies on things like pain,
it it's hard. It's a subjective thing. Right. And so you think is, is how,
how do you,
how do you really have conclusive proof that this is working the way that you
think it is? Someone says their pain is better and that's important,
but how do you measure that a little child who's having 300 seizures a week and
is now not having seizures is a much more specific sort of metric.
And it, it seemed to work really well in,
in kids who did not respond to existing seizure drugs, which,
which was kind of amazing to me.
And I think I told you when we've spoken before that, that to me,
in some ways that wasn't just a, a medical issue at that point,
it was a moral issue because nothing worked for these kids.
They were thinking about even compounding veterinary medications for them.
And these parents are like, you know, in their kitchen sinks, stirring up,
you know, cannabis, trying to get the formulation, right.
To turn it into an oil or a tincture they could put underneath the kid's tongue.
And, and it was working. And, you know,
I did stories on these kids and they were emblematic of thousands of more kids.
These weren't just anecdotal stories. And that's when I said, you know,
there's something here, but I gotta tell you, um,
when I wrote the article saying, I changed my mind on this, you know, you know,
you hit send at night and then you wake up in the morning and,
and I work at a university, I'm a, I'm a practicing physician. You know,
I live in that world. And part of me did wonder, like,
what is the response going to be?
I felt very comfortable with what I had written,
what I did not know was how it would be received. Yeah. And that, and that's,
that's always a challenge, I think. How was it received? I think, well,
I'm still employed. So that, that part of it was good. You know, I, I, yeah.
I didn't know if my chairman would say, Hey, look, you know, uh,
I may agree or not agree with you.
That's beside the point you shouldn't have done this or whatever. I, I, I,
you know, I had no idea how they were going to respond.
I think it was received well, Joe, I think that, um,
it added to the knowledge tree of,
of how we advance the society.
There's a sign of the times. I think,
I think if you had done that a couple of decades ago,
maybe there'd been a lot more pushback. I think people are coming to, uh,
much more of an understanding and, and, and also the logical
aspect of it. Like when,
when people look at all the things that human beings are allowed to consume
and including this, uh, that you gave me here,
this looks pretty spectacular.
I'm pretty proud of my gift that I've given you here. Some serious.
Bourbon here. Well.
But thank you for that for the man who has everything.
This is, um, legal, you know, I mean, we can enjoy a glass it's normal,
it's a normal thing. And we all agree to that. It's, it's a, you know,
it's a longstanding tradition for people to drink alcohol,
socially marijuana, for whatever reasons.
And we could go into that if you want,
but it's been demonized unfairly.
And people know that it's not like heroin or crack or things that you've seen.
People eyes fall apart on it on a regular basis.
And I think most people are aware of that now. So in the,
the era that you publish that it's people have come to an understanding that
it's not, it's not one of the hard drugs.
It's not the most dangerous thing in the world. It's not good for kids.
It's not good for some people it's not good for some people maybe with, uh,
possible schizophrenic tendencies. I think, uh, there's a real concern there.
Yeah. And, uh.
No, I, I mean, yeah, I, you know, it, it's, it you're,
you raise a really important point. You know, one thing I,
I tried to stay away from whenever I wrote about this was I felt like was a
little bit of a trap to get into the moral equivalency of things. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> like, I think things should just stand on their own two feet.
Yeah. You know, well, it's better than this, right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> it,
what you're saying is true.
I feel like alcohol can be a sledgehammer to the brain. I really do.
If you think about the way alcohol affects the brain,
very different than the way cannabis affects the brain. Um, and that,
that part of it is true,
but the idea that it could be a medicine in particular I'm mean, you know,
I, I think that that, that is really quite striking and it's a plant,
you know, and there's all these things. And I listen, like I said,
I listen to your podcast and I listen to Brett and I listen to others and I get
the points that they're making about that in terms of,
can you look to the earth to heal? And oftentimes you can, you know,
we've been given a lot of things, but I think that with,
with cannabis in particular, the, the evidence,
I'm not the first to say this.
Obviously people have been saying this for a long time.
Maybe the timing was right. But two decades ago,
people were saying this three decades ago, people were saying this,
this was on the formulary in the United States,
in the 1940s post re reefer madness,
which I think was like 1936 or something like that. People were already saying,
Hey, wait a second. This could be used to treat addiction.
This could be used to treat, you know, even, uh, Parkinsonian like symptoms.
There was all these things that they were putting out there.
And then it went through this cultural sort of assassination for a while,
which was, which was wild to sort of reflect on historically.
Watch the entire episode for free. Only on Spotify. I.